in this video let us learn about variables.
Variables are the names given to data.
Variables have data type variable is a place where we will store the data in over  program.
See if we have data that we can process upon the data way to keep the data.
So we take variables and stored it. in mathematics also we have the concept of variables like if you
write any function let us say F(X) .
Suppose 3x^2+4x
So what is this x, x is a variable.
So whatever the value of variable is we substitute here and get the answer for the same concept.
X can have some value so that concept right is taken in programming also.
So we have variables so variable should have data type means.
What type of values.
So.
So let us see how they use variables.
So here suppose I want to store a roll number of a student so roll numbers is of which type? integer
type.
It will not have a decimal point roll no. is 2.5
No it will be integer type and that roll no. will not be negative so we will not be storing
negative.
but roll no. will not be in thousand also just roll no. 1 and 2
this one digit two digit three digit number at most.
So we will take integer type so I take a variable of type Integer.
So this is a method of of declaring a variable.
This is a variable name and this is the data type so you have to declare the variable before using it
in the program.
So every variable must be declared and then only to see you.
So now this means that this rule number is a variable which is of type Integer and at run time the roll
number will consume two bytes of memory.
Rule number will consume two bites of memory.
This will take 2 byte, i showing it as a single box.
But there are two bytes in this one because integer takes two bytes if you say no four bytes so it will
take four bytes of memory and we know very well that every byte in the memory will have its address.
So let us assume the adress is 200 so the next byte is
Two hundred and one.
So these are two bytes actually.
Two hundred and two not one.
So these are two ways in which any number you stored in this it will be stored in the memory at runtime
of a program.
Next I want to store something in that variable.
OK you can stored it some level I want to store room number 10.
Then you can say roll number assign ten now the value will be stored before back what was there in
this one before assigning 10 so we say there was some garbage value so now it will be storing 10
garbage means  unknown value.
We have not stored it.
It is already there.
So for us it's a garbage.
Yes we say it's a garbage value that doesn't belong to us.
So we say garbage now we will be storing it.
So this number ten will be stored.
Now we say that variable is initialized.
So let us look at the statements.
This is declaration of a variable.
This is initialization of a variable.
And when you declare the variable and run the program at running time it will occupy memory and the value
will be stored data will be stored in this.
So this how variable is stored and initialized now let us learn one more thing.
Is it possible that i want to initialize at that time only.
Yes you can assign 10 here also.
So this will be declared as well as initialize for variable is declared as well as initialized it has
value then it will not have a chance of getting garbage value.
Now little more. suppose,I want to have a variable to store a section or a group Group A group B group
C like this group are there.
so I want to store group name group names a or b something.
So which type of variable i should take.character type
Okay declared a variable character type, char.
Group and I want to initialize it.
Okay.
You can initialize A.
Now one thing we learn here.
This you cannot write it simply like this.
You have to give it in quotes.
So every character type variable should be enclosed in single courts.
It should have been single courts.
So this is the declaration and initialization.
No I want to store the price of some items some product prizes twelve dollars 75 cents.
Suppose then which data type I should take I should take float type is the number of any large.
No no.
Not somewhat large.
So you don't need double that float is sufficient.
So let us see how to declare a float and initializing so float data type and its price and they i want
to store twelve point seven five dollar and better write f here after float.
No. you should write f here to show that it is float though it is not compulsory but it is better if you
write f otherwise if you don't write f it will assume or double by default.
If you write any number then it will be taken as the double right, float no. decimal if you write.
So if you want to write float then better write f even if you don't write F.
It's not the issue here.
It will understand that okay you are declaring float so take it.
Otherwise at other places you have to write f.
So these are the important things integer type variable and initialization character type initialization
float type initialization.
So this all you can declare the variable time in each place.
No few rules.
How to take the variable name. i will write down valid and invalid names.
So I'll just write them and I'll tell you why they are valid and invalid.
So what are the things that you should take.
Let us see you can declare a variable like x 1.
This is valid but you cannot take a variable 1 x means no. in the beginning is not allowed.
This is invalid and you can take a variable name as a roll no.
But you cannot take a variable name as a roll *space* number
No this is not allowed.
This is allowed.
This is not allowed.
This should not be any space in between variable name.
If you want to read them as two words then you can use underscored in them but this is allowed and it's
better sometimes.
This is followed in Java.
We can use rollno. as roll in small and No. this is second word starting with capital letter
And does the second word starting with capital letter.
orelse you can even write like this a RollNo.
Thisnotation you can follow.
This is common notation followed in Java.
Now Java is also a common language.
Some people know already Java so you can use that one.
There is no distinction here so you cannot write any variable name.
So this will be better easy for understanding and even you can follow this.
Most of the C++ programmer follow this one though.
They use every word trust letter as capital.
Then one last thing when you are giving variable name.
Don't give the names like x1 x2 ABC.
Use some meaningful name so that the name shows what type of value it is containing like price group.
Roll number.
These are readable.
So it will be easy for you only for writing the program.
So that's all how to declare the variables and how to use them I have shown you now we will be learning
how to write on the program so we will use these variables and we learn about the operators and then
we are in a position to write on the program.
So don't be in a hurry.
Watch all the videos peacefully one by one suddenly you will not understand or learn programming
in one day are suddenly you cannot jump on typing the program and running the program so equal and follow
the lectures one by one.
This will build up your knowledge about the programming then you are in a position for writing the programs.
So watch every video carefully.
Don't miss any videos.
So this all about the variables under declaration now more about the variables each and everything in
detail bring in minor details.
You'll find a section that is called as miscellaneous.
You watch that one but if you are a BEGINNERndont watch it now after the end of the course
you watch it are already you know basics of C programming or C++ programming little bit.
Then you can watch that miscellaneous.
So there is a video for database and variables s Watch that.
So that's all in the video.